---
title: "Bump Fee and Multisig Submission"
description: "This overview highlights network fees and resource limits."
authors: johnny-goodnow
tags:
  - legacy
  - CAP-15
  - CAP-19
  - CAP-20
  - CAP-5
  - SEP-19
---

## [Public Discussion](https://groups.google.com/g/stellar-dev/c/t162rVxLYB4/m/XB4_9st1BgAJ)

### Announcements

- [CAP-0019](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/core/cap-0019.md) (Future-upgradable TransactionEnvelope type) is moving to Accepted.
- "Implementation Review" stage added for CAPs (see https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/pull/279); keep in mind for future CAP process.
- Jed out this week; trustline discussion pushed again.
- [CAP-0020](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/core/cap-0020.md) implementation is mostly there.

### Agenda

- [CAP-0015](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/core/cap-0015.md) (Bump Fee Extension): Modified to utilize [CAP-0019](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/core/cap-0019.md). Goal is to bring it to a vote, or enumerate what is needed to make it pass.
  - David: Two transaction IDs (inner and outer) as a result of the change.
  - Nico: Original feedback was that this relies on [CAP-0005](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/core/cap-0005.md) logic that no longer exists in the CAP-0005 implementation.
  - Nico and David to discuss offline; David to submit additional edits and document constraints and issues from the meeting.
- [SEP-0019](https://github.com/stellar/stellar-protocol/blob/master/ecosystem/sep-0019.md) (Bootstrapping Multisig Transaction Submission):
  - Significant discussion with contributions from Paul Selden, Antoine (MrTicot), Orbit, Johan, and others.
  - Focus should remain on SEP-0019 and direction for any related SEPs.
  - Can pull in Paul and others for the next meeting; it is likely the most active SEP currently.
  - SEP-0019 is largely focused on the StellarGuard protocol and currently only describes basic flow properties and API endpoints; substantial work remains.
  - Open questions:
    - Metadata (storage and off-chain handling)
    - Coordinator (no core changes required)
    - Possible use of an IPFS home domain
  - Orbit to send a document outlining design considerations for multisig transaction coordination.
