---
title: "Open Protocol Discussion (6/17/2021)"
authors:
  - david-mazieres
  - eric-saunders
  - karen-chang
  - leigh-mcculloch
  - nicolas-barry
  - jed-mccaleb
  - jonathan-jove
  - orbitlens
  - siddharth-suresh
  - tomer-weller
  - justin-rice
tags: [legacy]
---

import YouTube from "@site/src/components/YouTube";

<YouTube ID="aHZQfcIdmoQ" />

- hello everyone and welcome to the stellar open protocol discussion for june 17 2021 um so this meeting like all these meetings it's a part of the process for making changes to the stellar protocol and we live stream these meetings so that anyone interested can follow along in these meetings we go over caps or core advancement proposals um these are open source specs that uh describe new features that are designed to evolve the protocol to meet ecosystem needs and before we start i do want to point out that this is a technical discussion a very technical discussion so you may want to review the caps we're about to go over and the recent developer mailing list threads about them both of which are linked to in the event description uh before we dive in i also want to give a quick process overview so to allow for discussion and feedback collection and vetting each cap goes through a specific life cycle right it's proposed it's drafted then it's discussed on the stellar debt mailing list again there's a link to that mailing list in the event description so if you're interested you should join it based on the feedback that comes in a draft is then revised and re-evaluated when that process is complete it's put to the cap committee who decides whether or not to accept it now after a cap committee vote the cap enters into a one-week final comment period which gives everyone a last chance to raise questions also on the stellar dev mailing list and if the cat makes it through that final comment period it's implemented in a major stellar core release then there's still one final step before it hits the network validators vote on whether or not to upgrade the network to a new version of the protocol thereby accepting or rejecting the change so ultimately at the end of the process the network decides on major protocol changes now at the moment there are two similar proposals on the table cap 37 and cap38 both proposals aim to improve overall network liquidity by introducing automated market makers at the protocol level so there's general agreement that amns which allow for the creation of liquidity pools are a simple way to attract capital and enable high volumes of trading and that introducing them to the protocol would have great benefits for the network right it leads better liquidity which means better exchange which means better cross currency payments but while the proposals have the same fundamental goal and actually a lot in common besides that there are a few implementation differences between them the big one it has to do with order routing right cap 37 it suggests interleaving amms for the built-in order books that make up stellar's decentralized exchange also known as the dex so in cap 37 a buy or sell order can execute in part against an a m and in part against the decks basically pulls from each to piece together the best overall rate so that's interleaved order rally cap 38 on the other hand takes a best venue approach right an order fully executes against one or the other either fully against an amm or fully against the decks whichever one provides the best overall rate so that's best venue ready there's already been a lot of discussion about both approaches and it's mostly happened on the stellar debt mailing list today we've arrived at a point where we kind of need to start figuring out our path forward so cap 38 has had more revisions of late than cap 37 so it's a little bit further along but let's imagine that cap 37 was brought to parity so it dealt with the issues that cat38 deals with things like authorization which approach would we choose and why that's where we're starting today um and i'm gonna open it up for discussion and also if i got any of that wrong please say so because i want to make sure that we're representing this correctly so who wants to start maybe i can't stop given that i was the last to talk i think on that mainly on the dev mailing list so that people can take it from there uh so i think yeah like we had like a a good exchange i think with uh marcus uh on the on that mainly so it's like the i think it we we reached a point i think in that thread where we are basically thinking about yeah capital e7 as a as something that can be done on top of capital e8 and i think as if as a framework i think where we ended up is really thinking about it as okay like there are like some potential concerns there um but like are we are they like um are those concerns um strong enough that they would be basically uh deal breakers for not doing uh like just capital eight so like the main concerns concern i had in that in that thread was and actually like as we've been moving along capital e uh the this became true the uh cap create at this point is the longest cap we ever wrote uh it's it's actually quite complicated it has many many things in there like uh and uh i didn't actually anticipate that we had so much complexity uh like up front uh i thought the hard stuff was going to be around the um the arithmetic like the fixed point math uh you know that we had experience with before uh with the decks and um this turned out to be bad too but uh yeah basically much many other things going on there um and uh yeah so where we where we are right now at with the with this thread is um it looks like there are no like um like deal breakers right like the like the the things for example interleaving okay interleaving is better like i think nobody uh disagrees with that but can we not having intelligence so doing best venue is that uh like is that something that maybe even though it's not optimal is that good enough to get us um how to get this amm solution out the door quicker uh i think there was like a a potentially other thing that was the this one we didn't even talk about because this one is really like a very different uh like a big departure basically from uh from how even existing mms uh in other uh like in other systems like unisop for example like the dynamic fee uh topic that is in capital e7 um this is another kind of ones in a way like in terms of complexity that i i don't think is necessary uh like uh to to get a first version out both are interesting but i i think the where we are right now is it looks like those are uh should be considered uh like uh at at a later point given uh that they're not strictly necessary for for a first version i keep repeating myself i'm sorry so i mean i feel like part of what you're saying is cap 38 which is already fairly complex is simpler than cap 37 that some of the things the features essentially that cap37 suggests could be added later is that correct that was always the the approach we are trying to do capital eight during the minimal set of things we could do to get uh emm's out and then the question the tension is already always is that something that's actually shippable or do we are we going to run into something um that makes it basically non-viable like so for example the i think one of the concerns around are we going to cause the network to grind to a halt let's say because we have so much arbitrage or like the markets become so inefficient that um that things are just uh unusable like those i think we're we're raised on the on the mailing list um and i think at this point it's just like we don't we don't know yeah and i think yeah maybe yeah i i would say like i think i don't i haven't heard a disagreement for uh you know cap 38 being on the path to cap 37 as in like we would basically have to implement cap 38 before we implement cap37 anyway and so that the really the question is just like does it make sense to go all the way to 37 or can we release 38 in the meantime and that really the only arguments i've seen for releasing uh for going all the way to 37 uh are that the arbitrage thing that nicola just mentioned and then also the fact that that that the you essentially need a new ui to interact with cap 37 where you kind of don't interact interact with cap 38 or sorry you need a new ui to interact with cap 38 but not really in the ui act with cap 37 because uh basically cap 38 really only supports path payments to to take these liquidity offers and that they aren't really patterns aren't really well supported in the ecosystem i don't think i mean definitely not like stellar acts and things like that so um but yeah so just basically so really the question here is is the the danger of arbitrage and and the kind of the burden of having people like change their uis is that great enough to warrant core going all the way to cap 37 and uh like i said on the mailing list i think the arbitrage thing is better addressed in a different way because we're going to have arbitrage even in cap 37 world uh and i think the ui thing is unfortunate but uh it just seems way better to get this out earlier and then we can proceed to work on uh some some like more cohesive ui uh like later basically if it seems worth it so um yeah but i don't know if anyone disagrees like uh like does anyone actually disagree here so i mean i i guess the question that i have is so i understand that a ui that that's something that can be solved later um i i and i guess my question is about arbitrage it seems like the risk with going with cap 38 is that it would open up new possibilities for arbitrage and your argument that you made on the mailing list jed is that there's a there are better it's better to deal with that as a separate issue um but i guess what the the the question is is there a way to actually understand the the arabic the risk that arbitrage poses um is it is it a real risk right is there a risk that implementing cat 38 would create so many arbitrage opportunities that would have an effect on the network or do we feel like that's not actually something to to worry about in the short term with cat38 and and basically why i can take that jet if you want oh like i i think there are like two type of problems right with that comes with arbitrage one is is like actually having this being a inefficient market but arbitrage is correcting that so in a way maybe it doesn't matter like it just makes the it creates those weird like uh change in price on certain pairs but you know at the end of the day like those the mms end up being balanced correctly so it's not that i think that's not so much of a of a problem maybe there's like the yeah like you have a larger spread uh in a way like uh for for like a little bit like things like that uh i think the one of the main concerns uh i think came from more like the the the amount of traffic that potentially gets generated by this uh by more arbitrage activity so for for example more recently uh we had like a lot of relativity for example on the market uh like in crypto in general like what uh what was it like maybe a month ago or something like that well it was like crazy and um and when when was when this was happening we had actually um a lot of uh of ledgers on the network that were uh with a lot of failed transactions um and i think that could be the type of things that happens more more often if we have like this discrepancy between the decks and uh and amms um the the reality is that with the work that we did in the last year uh this type of so the impact on the network is is actually um kind of not that bad i mean it's uh it doesn't like a year like the same question a year ago would have been okay if we have like this type of arbitrage spikes and whatnot we were actually seeing like uh certain ledgers being impacted like uh like sometimes we had like delays of like uh 10 seconds 15 seconds on ledgers like this was not acceptable so we we we found ways to fix that um but we had a good stress test i guess so yeah like uh like less months and you know like or like a a good what was it like a good month i think uh like in april basically uh and yeah the network was fine the annoying thing is that we have dancering systems have all the straight transactions and um and that i think we have to to be mindful of that i think that's kind of the the thing for me that is where this is potentially annoying um but that's something that we can uh improve of our time i think it's uh like for example Horizon right now uh there's quite a bit of overhead even for failed transactions uh i think we can probably do a quite a bit better and we have uh also similar ideas with in core i think we have to deal with that regardless because we have like some historical data already with a bunch of failed transactions and i think when people want to uh rebuild historical data i mean like the meta for example based on those old ledgers i think we want to be to do that efficiently so i think we will find ways to to make this better overall yeah to me it seems like it's it like if arbitrage goes up a lot yeah certainly it'll certainly be a nuisance but it doesn't seem like it there's a way for it to really be catastrophic i mean there's lots of uh you know uh guardrails and checks in the network already that that that would prevent it from doing that uh but yeah like things like catching up to the network or running Horizon could potentially be like more load than you would we would want so i think we should deal with arbitrage i'm not convinced it'll like like i said in the 90s i'm not convinced that going to 38 will greatly increase arbitrage unless it just greatly increases the number of people using the network right which is we want right so um uh but yeah but it doesn't seem like something that we have to fix before we release 38 is my point like i think we can release it and if arbitrage goes up then then we'll certainly address it we need to address our arbitrage regardless so we should be working on that kind of in parallel it's kind of my thoughts i mean just kind of for the record you know i know this isn't on the table so my my preference in all this uh you know i think the the the the real priority is to not let the the perfect be the enemy of the good in this project so what i would you know my ideal solution for an amm would be you know as fast to deploy to implement a deploy as possible and it's easy to kind of upgrade or back out you know when we decide we want to do something better and so from my point of view both cap 37 and cap 38 are a little bit too linked with the with the order bike i mean i've talked to some of you privately you know my ideal world it would just be like completely separate set of uh operations and order book it would be even a separate phase of like a transaction processing so i'm not seriously putting this on the table um except to point out the fact that there's two ways to reduce arbitrage one is to make the arbitrage uh expensive because there's a fee and the other is to make it not risk free right so if you know if you did have a separate kind of transaction to take advantage of the mm and you couldn't take advantage of the order book in the same transaction then there would at least be some risk that like you would buy something and not be able to offload it uh the way you thought you were going to be able to offload it so well i think that you know sort of where where we're headed is something that's like a bit more integrated with like uh you know that works with legacy transactions um you know if we really are concerned about uh arbitrage we should also consider the ability just to make it not not risk-free to kind of not allow the things to happen in the in the same transaction i think that um that can you guys can people see me hear me okay yeah it was just a weird like silence yeah okay cool um kind of like for me the extension of what david's saying and you know i'm one of the people who was talking that he said that he was talking to about what he was saying but like um there are all these kinds of trade-offs that we're making today you know what's the simplest thing that we can implement that you know people will readily adopt um it's kind of the way that i've been looking at it and so going like one step simpler as david was saying and you know introducing new operations that completely decouple it from the uh transactions even that happen at a different phase for example yeah that would be even that would be even one step further um this would be a real i think a even bigger hindrance to adoption even than you know what judd was pointing about how um path payments aren't widely adopted in the ecosystem but i think the kind of bigger picture on doing anything like that is no matter when we were to like imagine we were to do what david was posing or anything else considerably drastic like that that would be such a disruptive change that you know like what would be the difference if we were to make a really disruptive change like that now or if we were to deploy something that we're ready to deploy now and make a really disruptive change like that in six months or in a year or whatever having something working in the short run wouldn't really change my calculus at least on making further changes like that that you know we'll have this new data we'll have all this new information about what's good what's not good and then we can build a system that's potentially better in various ways maybe ways that we don't even realize now uh and there's not really anything stopping us from making those changes later yeah and just in case it wasn't clear like i did end up being sort of persuaded uh by this argument um so um and again like i think that the fact that cap 37 is the potential retrofit onto cap 38 again speaks to the ability of cap 38 to be like a reasonable first step that's not overly limiting what we're gonna do um in the future as well so i mean so it sounds like people are generally saying okay cap 38 is a reasonable first step forward it's simpler it could we could add cap37 to it later we could explore possibilities to sort of deal with arbitrage in various different ways but it feels like a reasonable first step forward so that we can implement it and get moving offering and then start to gather information and do it in like a sort of first step way that can lead to other things and i mean it feels like that's what everyone's saying start simple implement something now see what happens know that we can retrofit things to it later um and i guess my question is does anyone have a problem with that approach or does that approach just generally make sense because i guess then i i just wonder if we are at the point where it is time to start to basically move cap 38 forward in the process um and what that would look like again just to like sort of remind people of the process is that right now cap 38 is a draft there is a cap committee all of whom are on this call who could vote to approve that draft and if it was approved we'd move it into final comment period people out there anyone would still have an opportunity to comment on it during for one week on the stellar dev mailing list and depending on what happens in that week you know we can move it into accepted and then start to talk about we start to work on an implementation with an eye towards including it in the next protocol release um i mean i guess i i feel like we're at the time when it may be time to just sort of vote on whether or not to accept cap 38 um does anyone object the idea of doing that is there any blocker one question i had about cap 38 as if things do turn out to be bad how do we decide in a principled way this is time to pull the plug or pause the amm or something like that i know we have a mechanism in the cat to turn it off but what would be the trigger for that i guess uh bad in what context here uh bad as in like we misjudged you know the arbitrage or something like that or bed in the context of like oh there's a bug uh because this is complicated yeah that's kind of what i'm getting at like maybe there's a bug that's like one extreme of bad and then there's sort of this in-between bird where we have a lot of arbitrage and Horizon is struggling to read all these failed transactions but it's sort of okay but maybe we should turn it off because it would be better we'll be there's a possibility of a grey area where we'd have to think about that do we normally think about that now or do we want to think about it then i think we have the tools for that i think like the talking about the gray this grave thing is kind of funny because it's also the the more it's unclear if it's bad the harder it's going to get people to vote for the change right so yeah i think it was it would have to be you know more only extreme like you know there's like this security issue or whatever all right that uh that basically nobody's going to disagree with voting for for a change to fix it like fixing it short term maybe turn it off and then of course it would be like turn around and you know a new protocol it is it's just to be clear right if if this situation unfold like basically if validators agree to the protocol change that includes this cat 38 and then later it turns out that something is wrong then a step to sort of undo that or turn it off that would be up to the network as well the validators would also have to vote to accept whatever the solution was that's correct right yeah and that's why like it's the the less it's a hot you know it's a home run that it's something you know good or bad like the harder it's going to get be to get actual adoption i think the the only chance of you know pulling the plug hitting the button whatever you want to call it um you know getting that level of unanimity as nikola was saying would be uh would be in the event that like you know there was an obvious way that people were going to lose money you know if we were in that kind of a situation i think that it would not be hard to convince validators like okay let's uh let's not let that happen i think short of that person i have a hard time imagining that people would vote you know to to turn it off and it'd be more likely that we'd be in a situation where we're under some pressure to make some improvement and release a new version of the protocol in a shorter time maybe than otherwise it's also worth mentioning that we got the communication channels established with the validators and you know time and time again uh the validators have proven this out themselves um you know super responsive and responsible so um you know if something bad does happen i believe we can get that effort together pretty fast to make a change so given all that it seems like we're landing in a position where we say okay if something does go wrong if it's something is clearly wrong then we can work with the network and we believe that the network is full of reasonable responsive validators who can help correct who can help sort of get things back on the rails not that we're anticipating that to happen but just like we're really getting into like the worst case unhappy path scenario here um yeah i know it's all about setting low expectations that we're always happy of the outcome uh no but i think eric's concern is is actually the same than uh you know what people raise right with you know if you have a lot of arbitrage maybe fees go up like more than they should it's annoying uh i think it's yeah it's a nuisance and in that case i think we'd have to uh probably like figure out you know in a more accelerated way like mitigations for arbitrage yeah i think that's kind of yeah exactly there's two concerns right one is fees going up and the other one is that number of fair transactions spikes in a way that is very large and starts to cause us performance issues and so from my perspective the risk is the second one and i want to get ahead of that so i think my takeaway from this is i should accelerate plans to deal with that possibility now but there is a there is some risk that this will happen in real time right but we have a few months and we're working on this already as you say and and the thing is that you were already processing today like the steady state non-failed transactions is over 100 transactions per second so you know it's already substantial yeah i mean as the baseline of successful transactions goes up that increases everything for Horizon as we discussed nico but the number of failed transactions is potentially unbounded right in a ledger no it's not it's bounded by you know the whatever setting we have right now it's uh a thousand their pleasure yeah they count as part of the legend limit yeah so people would have to vote to increase that which you know they could do today anyways also let's not forget that there's there's an optimistic scenario here which is that there's a lot of arbitrage but the amm works really well so the actual solution is we deprecate the order book and we just kind of convince the ecosystem that it's better not to to place offers in the order book an even happier path uh perhaps people don't need to be convinced because they like the uh the imm so much and they yeah exactly right so so one clear thing right we we know that this proposal would create amms alongside the order books but we don't know what that's going to do to the order books right we just we don't know yet yeah yeah yeah john um i think this is one of those like dynamic analysis type of things it's uh it's very very hard to predict i mean we're all considering this kind of like i mean like we're engineers we build stuff and so we like to consider bad cases and make sure that we're not going to end up in really bad cases as a consequence but like um one of the things that we're like perhaps this does increase the amount of arbitrage i suspect it will at least a bit um i think it'd be hard to convince someone that that wouldn't be a consequence of what we're doing but like uh if it were to simultaneously reduce the amount of market making on the order book because people are just you know populating amms instead it's it's hard to know which of those two effects will be bigger uh like it wouldn't be that weird to me it wouldn't be weird to me at all actually if the total amount of traffic on the network actually went down as a consequence of this like averages lower spikes or higher is like a totally plausible uh outcome great i mean it feels like eric did that sort of address your concerns do you have more questions the address is my concern i have one other question uh following the doomsday trend of all engineers what happens if uh this is wildly successful and everybody wants to join Stellar and join the amm and deposit pull shares and retrieve pool shares and everything else have we thought about that i mean it works for unison i mean we've got a lot of room to run here you know between us and let's say ethereum but so but i think that that would just be the outcomes please go up right yeah all right right well or the ledger limits could go up too right there's still there's still headroom that validators have to increase the capacity of ledgers too and we'd all be really happy because this idea would have gained traction and everyone would love it i mean i mean if amms are super popular i mean they require way less transactions i think most of the transactions on the network now are people adjusting their orders on the order book so that kind of all goes away um so we have even more room if in a m world so any other questions thoughts doomsday scenarios that we want to play out are we ready for a vote i feel like we're ready for a vote and i kind of just want to do it now live on this call but before i do that i'll just get like real procedural and say does anyone like object to actually doing a sort of live vote and what time to think about this in which case we can conduct the vote asynchronously over email yeah cool okay so then i think we should have a vote here to move cap 38 into final comment period pending acceptance um again at the end of there'll be a week for people to sort of uh raise questions on the stellar dev mailing list and we'll post this this new status change there um and at the end of that week you know well we'll see what kind of comes in depending on what happens at the end of that week we may move this into accepted um and so you know based on also if anyone ever wants to check out this whole procedure you can look in the github cap repository and it lays out exactly the life cycle of the cap and you'll see that there are three voters and it requires unanimous consent from all of them to move the cap into accepted and so i will it is jed uh david and nicolas so let's start with jed jen what's your vote uh yes yes to accept okay yeah david what's your vote um yeah i'd like to accept chapter 38 great nikolai what's your vote no surprise you know i'm kind of yes yes okay cool so we have three yeses and that means that cap 38 moves into final comment period pending acceptance um i think that's it any other final comments thoughts questions that anyone has well does the group want to provide uh some direction on cap 37 like should cap37 now be adjusted to be layered on top of cap 38 yeah yeah i think that makes sense i mean i i think uh i'm not saying that we would implement this stuff immediately i think part of it is that we want to see what the what how things play out like maybe everyone moves to a m and we don't need to interleave these things and we can just skip that complexity but likely people communities both so it would be good to have cat 37 be there in case we want to go down that road so that would be my take so technically that means or procedurally that means cap 37 stays in draft mode and may be revisited in order to like sort of graft it on to cap 38 in the future yeah i think there are some changes to cap 37 that would be worth making because not all of the uh concerns in the in the cap make sense in light of how cat 38 is actually implemented so there's some things that are written up there as well right it would require revision ideally some things get easier because like the authorization logic or whatever can be just uh you know can pick you back on on cap 38 um and then some things uh need to be rethought um there's also feedback there's a few things like for example cap i think to get closer to adoption cap 37 should not use floating point because we like try to avoid floating point because it's like the arithmetic's not associated which is kind of annoying again that easy fix but just like um basically i would encourage uh cap 37 uh the you know revision to continue and and to try to coexist to try to have a deployment path or a theoretical one of how this would work now that we're trying to move ahead with cap 38.
- great sounds like a plan anything else okay well thanks everyone for coming thanks for participating thanks everyone who's watching um again we encourage you to participate as much as you want in any of these discussions about the future of the stellar protocol there are links to these particular caps in the event description so you can go read them to actually see what it is that we're talking about and there's also a link to the stellar depth mailing list which is where we do things like notify people about the changes of status of caps um and it's also where all this discussion before this meeting happens about the caps so again it's open participation we'd love to hear your thoughts and we will now move cap 38 into final comment period pending approval all right and that's it thanks everybody

On June 17, 2021, the Stellar Development Foundation hosted "Open Protocol Discussion (6/17/2021)", a discussion for the global community. Builders traded notes on Open, Protocol, and Discussion.

hello everyone and welcome to the stellar open protocol discussion for june 17 2021 um so this meeting like all these meetings it's a part of the process for making changes to the stellar protocol and we live stream these meetings so that anyone interested can follow along in these meetings we go over caps or core advancement proposals um these are open source specs that uh describe new features that are designed to evolve the protocol to meet ecosystem

Key discussion threads:

- Open anchored the discussion as speakers compared real-world examples.
- Practical demos highlighted how Protocol applies to Stellar builders.
- Attendees outlined next steps around Discussion for upcoming releases.

<details>
  <summary>Video Transcript</summary>

[00:00] Hello everyone and welcome to the Stellar Open Protocol Discussion for June 17- 2021. So this meeting, like all these meetings, it's a part of the process for making changes to the Stellar protocol and we live stream these meetings so that anyone interested can follow along. In these meetings we go over CAPs, or Core Advancement Proposals. These are open source specs that describe new features that are designed to evolve the protocol to meet ecosystem needs. And before we start, I do want to point-

[01:00] And before we start, I do want to point out- that this is a technical discussion, a very technical discussion. So you may want to review the CAPs we're about to go over and the recent developer mailing list threads about them, both of which are linked to in the event description. Before we dive in, I also want to give a quick process overview so to allow for discussion and feedback collection and vetting. Each CAP goes through a specific life cycle: right, it's proposed, it's drafted, then it's discussed. On the Stellar debt mailing list, again, there's a link to that mailing list in the event description. So if you're interested, you should join it based on the feedback that comes in. A draft is then revised and re evaluated when that process is complete, it's put to the CAP committee, who decides whether or not to accept it. Now, after a CAP committee vote, the CAP enters into a one week Final Comment Period, which gives everyone a last chance to raise questions, also on the Stellar dev mailing list. And if the CAP makes it through that Final Comment Period, it's implemented in a major Stellar core release. Then there's still one final step before it hits the network. Validators vote on whether or not to upgrade the network to a new version of the protocol,

[02:00] Thereby accepting or rejecting the change. So ultimately, at the end of the process, the network decides on major protocol changes. Now, at the moment, there are two similar proposals on the table: CAP 37 and CAP 38. Both proposals aim to improve overall network liquidity by introducing automated market makers at the protocol level. So there's general agreement that amns, which allow for the creation of liquidity pools, are a simple way to attract capital and enable high volumes of trading, and that introducing them to the protocol would have great benefits for the network. Right, it leads better liquidity, which means better cross currency payments. But while the proposals have the same fundamental goal and actually a lot in common besides that, there are a few implementation differences between them. The big one, it has to do with order routing right. CAP 37: it suggests interleaving AMMs for the built in orderbooks that make up Stellar's decentralized exchange, also known as the DEX. So in CAP 37. A buy- also known as the DEX, so in CAP 37, a buy or sell order can execute in part

[03:00] Against an a? M and in part against the DEX, basically pulls from each to piece together the best overall rate. So that's interleaved order rally. CAP 38, on the other hand, takes a best venue approach right. An order fully executes against one or the other, either fully against an AMM or fully against the DEX, whichever one provides the best overall rate. So that's best venue ready. There's already been a lot of discussion about both approaches and it's mostly happened on the Stellar debt mailing list. Today we've arrived at a point where we kind of need to start figuring out our path forward. So CAP 38 has had more revisions of late than CAP 37, so it's a little bit further along. But let's imagine that CAP 37 was brought to parity. So it dealt with the issues that cat38 deals with, things like authorization: which approach would we choose and why? That's where we're starting today and I'm gonna open it up for discussion and also, if I got any of that wrong, please say so, because I want to make sure that we're representing this

[04:00] Correctly. So, who wants to start? Maybe I can't stop, given that I was the last to talk. I think on that mainly on the dev mailing list, so that people can take it from there. So I think, yeah, like we had like a good exchange, I think with marcus on the, on that mainly. So it's like the. I think it. We reached a point. I think, in that thread where we are basically thinking about, yeah, capital e7 as a, as something that can be done on top of capital e8, and I think, as if as a framework, I think where we ended up is really thinking about it as okay, like there are like some potential concerns there but like are we? Are they like? Are those concerns

[05:00] Strong enough that they would be basically deal breakers for not doing like just capital eight? So, like the main concerns concern I had in that thread was, and actually like, as we've been moving along, capital e, the- this became true. The CAP create at this point is the longest CAP we ever wrote. It's actually quite complicated. It has many things in there like and I didn't actually anticipate that we had so much complexity. Like up front I thought the hard stuff was going to be around the arithmetic, like the fixed point math. You know that we had experience with before with the DEX and this turned out to be bad too. But yeah, basically much, many other things going on there and yeah. So where we are right now at with the with

[06:00] This thread, is it looks like there are no like deal breakers right like the things, for example, interleaving- okay, interleaving is better, like I think nobody disagrees with that. But can we not having intelligence so doing best venue? Is that like? Is that something that maybe, even though it's not optimal, is that good enough to get us how to get this AMM solution out the door quicker? I think there was like a potentially other thing that was the this one we didn't even talk about, because this one is really like a very different, like a big departure basically from how, even existing mms in other like in other systems, like unisop, for example, like the dynamic fee topic that is in

[07:00] Capital e7. This is another kind of ones in a way, like in terms of complexity that I don't think is necessary, like to get a first version out. Both are interesting, but I think the where we are right now is it looks like those are- should be considered like at a later point, given that they're not strictly necessary for a first version. I keep repeating myself, I'm sorry. So I mean, I feel like part of what you're saying is CAP 38, which is already fairly complex, is simpler than CAP 37, that some of the things, the features essentially that CAP 37 suggests could be added later. Is that correct? That was always the approach. We are trying to do capital eight during the minimal set of things we could do to get emm's out. And then the question, the

[08:00] Tension is already always: is that something that's actually shippable or do we, are we going to run into something that makes it basically non viable like so, for example, the. I think one of the concerns around- are we going to cause the network to grind to a halt, let's say, because we have so much arbitrage, or, like the markets become so inefficient that things are just unusable? Like those? I think we're raised on the mailing list and I think at this point it's just like we don't know, yeah, and I think yeah, maybe, yeah. I would say like I think I don't. I haven't heard a disagreement, for you know CAP 38 being on the path to CAP 37, as in like we would basically have to implement CAP 38 before we implement CAP 37 anyway, and so that the really the question is just like, does it make sense to go all the way to 37, or can we release 38 in the meantime?

[09:00] And that really the only arguments I've seen for releasing, for going all the way to 37, are that the arbitrage thing that nicola just mentioned, and then also the fact that the you essentially need a new ui to interact with CAP 37, where you kind of don't interact with CAP 38, or sorry, you need a new ui to interact with CAP 38, but not really in the ui act with CAP 37, because basically CAP 38 really only supports path payments to take these, liquidity offers, and that they aren't really patterns aren't really well supported in the ecosystem. I don't think I mean definitely not like Stellar acts and things like that. So but yeah, so just basically. So really, the question here is the danger of arbitrage and the kind of the burden of having people like change their uis is that great enough to warrant core going all the way to CAP 37? And, like I said on the mailing list, I

[10:00] And like I said on the mailing list, I think the arbitrage thing is better addressed in a different way, because we're going to have arbitrage even in CAP 37 world and I think the ui thing is unfortunate, but it just seems way better to get this out earlier and then we can proceed to work on some like more cohesive ui, like later. Basically, if it seems worth it, so yeah, but I don't know if anyone disagrees, like, does anyone actually disagree here? So I mean, I guess the question that I have is: so I understand that a ui, that that's something that can be solved later. I and I guess my question is about arbitrage. It seems like the risk with going with CAP 38 is that it would open up new possibilities for arbitrage, and your argument that you made on the mailing list, Jed, is that there's a, there are better, it's better to deal with that as a separate

[11:00] Issue, but I guess what the question: is there a way to actually understand the arabic, the risk that arbitrage poses? Is it a real risk, right? Is there a risk that implementing CAP 38 would create so many arbitrage opportunities that would have an effect on the network? Or do we feel like that's not actually something to worry about in the short term with cat38? And basically, why, I can take that jet if you want. Oh, like, I think there are like two type of problems right with that comes with arbitrage. One is like actually having this being a inefficient market, but arbitrage is correcting that. So in a way, maybe it doesn't matter. Like. It just makes the. It creates those weird like change in price on certain pairs, but you know, at the end of the day, like those, the mms end up being

[12:00] Balanced correctly. So it's not that. I think that's not so much of a problem. Maybe there's like the- yeah, like you have a larger spread in a way, like for like a little bit, like things like that. I think the one of the main concerns, I think came from more like the amount of traffic that potentially gets generated by this, by more arbitrage activity. So, for example, more recently, we had like a lot of relativity, for example, on the market, like in crypto in general, like what was it like maybe a month ago, or something like that. Well, it was like crazy. And when was when this was happening? We had actually a lot of ledgers on the network that were with a lot of failed transactions, and I think that could be the type of,

[13:00] And I think that could be the type of things that happens more often if we have, like this discrepancy between the DEX and AMMs and AMMs. The reality is that, with the work that we did in the last year, this type of so the impact on the network is actually kind of not that bad. I mean it's it doesn't like a year, like the same question a year ago would have been okay. If we have like this type of arbitrage spikes and whatnot, we were actually seeing like certain ledgers being impacted, like sometimes we had like delays of like 10 seconds, 15 seconds on ledgers like this was not acceptable. So we found ways to fix that. But we had a good stress test, I guess. So, yeah, like less months and you know, like, or like a, like a good. What was it like a good month? I think, like in April basically,

[14:00] And yeah, the network was fine. The annoying thing is that we have dancering systems, have all the straight transactions and that I think we have to be mindful of that. I think that's kind of the thing for me. That is where this is potentially annoying, but that's something that we can improve of our time. I think it's like, for example, Horizon: right now, there's quite a bit of overhead, even for failed transactions. I think we can probably do a quite a bit better, and we have also similar ideas with in core. I think we have to deal with that regardless, because we have, like some historical data already with a bunch of failed transactions and I think when people want to rebuild historical data, I mean like the meta, for example, based on those old ledgers- I think we want to be to do that efficiently. So I think we will find ways to make this better overall. Yeah, to me

[15:00] It seems like it's it like if arbitrage goes up a lot. Yeah, certainly, it'll certainly be a nuisance, but it doesn't seem like it. There's a way for it to really be catastrophic. I mean, there's lots of- you know- guardrails and checks in the network already that would prevent it from doing that. But yeah, like things like catching up to the network or running Horizon could potentially be like more load than you would, we would want. So I think we should deal with arbitrage. I'm not convinced it'll. Like I said in the 90s, I'm not convinced that going to 38 will greatly increase arbitrage, unless it just greatly increases the number of people using the network right, which is we want right. So, but yeah, but it doesn't seem like something that we have to fix before we release. 38 is my point? Like I think we can release it, and if arbitrage goes up, then we'll certainly address it. We need to address our arbitrage regardless. So we should be working on that kind of in parallel. It's kind of my thoughts, I mean just kind of for the record, you know, I know this isn't on the table. So my preference in all this, you know, I

[16:00] Think the real priority is to not let the perfect be the enemy of the good in this project. So what I would you know, my ideal solution for an AMM would be: You know as fast to deploy, to implement a deploy as possible, and it's easy to kind of upgrade or back out. You know when we decide we want to do something better. And so from my point of view, both CAP 37 and CAP 38 are a little bit too linked with the order bike. I mean I've talked to some of you privately. You know my ideal world. It would just be like completely separate set of operations and orderbook. It would be even a separate phase of like a transaction processing. So I'm not seriously putting this on the table, except to point out the fact that there's two ways to reduce arbitrage. One is to make the arbitrage expensive because there's a fee, and the other is to make it not risk free, right. So if you know, if you did have a separate kind of transaction to take advantage of the mm

[17:00] And you couldn't take advantage of the orderbook in the same transaction, then there would at least be some risk that, like you would buy something and not be able to offload it the way you thought you were going to be able to offload it. So well. I think that you know sort of where we're headed is something that's like a bit more integrated with. Like you know that works with legacy transactions. You know, if we really are concerned about arbitrage, we should also consider the ability just to make it not risk free to kind of not allow the things to happen in the same transaction. I think that can you guys, can people see me, hear me okay, yeah, it was just a weird like silence.

[18:00] Yeah, okay, cool kind of like for me, the extension of what David's saying, and you know I'm one of the people who was talking that he said that he was talking to, about what he was saying, but like there are all these kinds of trade offs that we're making today, you know what's the simplest thing that we can implement that you know people will readily adopt. It's kind of the way that I've been looking at it and so going like one step simpler, as David was saying, and you know, introducing new operations that completely decouple it from the transactions even that happen at a different phase, for example, yeah, that would be, Yeah, that would be even one step further. This would be a real, I think a even bigger hindrance to adoption, even than you know what judd was pointing about how path payments aren't widely adopted in the ecosystem. But I think the kind of bigger picture on doing anything like that is no matter when we were to like imagine we were to do what David was posing or anything else

[19:00] Considerably drastic like that, would be such a disruptive change that you know, like what would be the difference if we were to make a really disruptive change like that now. Or if we were to deploy something that we're ready to deploy now and make a really disruptive change like that in six months or in a year or whatever. Having something working in the short run wouldn't really change my calculus, at least, on making further changes like that. You know, we'll have this new data, we'll have all this new information about what's good, what's not good, and then we can build a system that's potentially better in various ways, maybe ways that we don't even realize now, and there's not really anything stopping us from making those changes later. Yeah, and just in case it wasn't clear, like I did end up being sort of persuaded by this argument, so and again. Like I think that the fact that CAP 37 is the potential retrofit onto CAP 38 again speaks to the ability of CAP 38 to be like a reasonable first step that's not

[20:00] Overly limiting what we're gonna do in the future as well. So I mean, so it sounds like people are generally saying: okay, CAP 38 is a reasonable first step forward. It's simpler, it could we could add CAP 37 to it later. We could explore possibilities to sort of deal with arbitrage in various different ways. But it feels like a reasonable first step forward so that we can implement it and get moving, offering and then start to gather information and do it in like a sort of first step way that can lead to other things. And I mean it feels like that's what everyone's saying: start simple, implement something now, see what happens, know that we can retrofit things to it later. And I guess my question is: does anyone have a problem with that approach or does that approach just generally make sense?

[21:00] Because I guess then I just wonder if we are at the point where it is time to start to basically move CAP 38 forward in the process, and what that would look like again just to like sort of remind people of the process is that right now CAP 38 is a draft. There is a CAP committee, all of whom are on this call, who could vote to approve that draft and if it was approved, we'd move it into Final Comment Period. People out there, anyone would still have an opportunity to comment on it during for one week, on the Stellar dev mailing list and, depending on what happens in that week, you know, we can move it into accepted and then start to talk about, we start to work on an implementation with an eye towards including it in the next protocol release. I mean I guess I feel like we're at the time when it may be time to just sort of vote on whether or not to

[22:00] Accept CAP 38. Does anyone object the idea of doing that? Is there any blocker? One question I had about CAP 38, as if things do turn out to be bad, how do we decide in a principled way: this is time to pull the plug or pause the AMM or something like that. I know we have a mechanism in the CAP to turn it off. But what would be the trigger for that? I guess bad in what context here? Bad as in, like, we misjudged, you know, the arbitrage, or something like that. Or bed in the context of like, oh, there's a bug, because this is complicated. Yeah, that's kind of what I'm getting at. Like maybe there's a bug. That's like one extreme of bad. And then there's sort of this in between bird where we have a lot of arbitrage and Horizon is struggling to read all these failed transactions, but it's sort of okay, but maybe we should turn it off because it

[23:00] Would be better. We'll be. There's a possibility of a grey area where we'd have to think about that. Do we normally think about that now or do we want to think about it? Then I think we have the tools for that. I think, like the talking about the gray, this grave thing is kind of funny because it's also the more it's unclear if it's bad, the harder it's going to get people to vote for the change right? So, yeah, I think it was. It would have to be you know more only extreme, like you know there's like this security issue or whatever. All right, that basically nobody's going to disagree with voting for a change to fix it. Like fixing it short term, maybe, turn it off, and then of course it would be like turn around and you know a new protocol it is. It's just to be clear, right. If this situation unfold, like basically, if validators agree to the

[24:00] Protocol change that includes this CAP 38, and then later it turns out that something is wrong, then a step to sort of undo that or turn it off, that would be up to the network as well. The validators would also have to vote to accept. Whatever the solution was. That's correct, right, yeah, and that's why, like it's, the less it's a hot, you know it's a home run, that it's something you know good or bad, like the harder it's going to get- be to get actual adoption. I think the only chance of you know, pulling the plug, hitting the button, whatever you want to call it, you know, getting that level of unanimity, as nikola was saying would be, in the event that, like you know, there was an obvious way that people were going to lose money. You know, if we were in that kind of a situation, I think that it would not be hard to convince validators like, okay, let's not let that happen. I think, short of that person, I have a hard time imagining that people would vote, you know,

[25:00] To turn it off, and it'd be more likely that we'd be in a situation where we're under some pressure to make some improvement and release a new version of the protocol in a shorter time maybe than otherwise. It's also worth mentioning that we got the communication channels established with the validators and you know, time and time again, the validators have proven this out themselves. You know, super responsive and responsible. So you know, if something bad does happen, I believe we can get that effort together pretty fast to make a change. So, given all that, it seems like we're landing in a position where we say, okay, if something does go wrong, if it's something is clearly wrong, then we can work with the network and we believe that the network is full of reasonable, responsive validators who can help sort of get things back on the rails.

[26:00] Not that we're anticipating that to happen, but just like we're really getting into like the worst case unhappy path scenario here. Yeah, I know it's all about setting low expectations, that we're always happy of the outcome, no, but I think eric's concern is actually the same than you know what people raise right with. You know, if you have a lot of arbitrage, maybe fees go up like more than they should. It's annoying. I think it's, yeah, it's a nuisance and in that case I think we'd have to probably like figure out, you know, in a more accelerated way, like mitigations for arbitrage. Yeah, I think that's kind of. Yeah, exactly, there's two concerns, right. One is fees going up and the other one is that number of fair transactions spikes in a way that is very large and starts to cause us performance issues, and so, from my perspective, the risk is the second one and I want to get ahead of that. So I think my takeaway from this is I should- accelerate plans to deal with that

[27:00] Possibility now, but there is a there is some risk that this will happen in real time. Right, but we have a few months and we're working on this already, as you say, and the thing is that you were already processing today, like the steady state, non failed transactions is over 100 transactions per second, so you know it's already substantial. Yeah, I mean, as the baseline of successful transactions goes up, that increases everything for Horizon, as we discussed Nico, but the number of failed transactions is potentially unbounded. Right in a ledger? No, it's not, it's bounded by. You know the whatever setting we have right now, it's a thousand, their pleasure. Yeah, they count as part of the legend limit. Yeah, so people would have to vote to increase that, which you know they could do today. Anyways, also, let's not forget

[28:00] That there's an optimistic scenario here, which is that there's a lot of arbitrage but the AMM works really well. So the actual solution is we deprecate the orderbook and we just kind of convince the ecosystem that it's better not to place offers in the orderbook- an even happier path. Perhaps people don't need to be convinced because they like the imm so much and they, yeah, exactly right. So one clear thing: right, we know that this proposal would create AMMs alongside the orderbooks, but we don't know what that's going to do to the orderbooks. Right, we just we don't know yet. Yeah, John, I think this is one of those like dynamic analysis type of things. It's very hard to predict. I mean we're all considering this kind of like. I mean, like we're engineers, we build stuff, and so we like to consider bad cases and make sure that we're not going to end up in really bad cases as a consequence, but like one of the things that we're like. Perhaps this does increase the amount of

[29:00] Arbitrage. I suspect it will. At least a bit. I think it'd be hard to convince someone that wouldn't be a consequence of what we're doing, but like if it were to simultaneously reduce the amount of market making on the orderbook because people are just, you know, populating AMMs instead. It's hard to know which of those two effects will be bigger. Like it wouldn't be that weird to me. It wouldn't be weird to me at all. Actually, if the total amount of traffic on the network actually went down as a consequence of this, like averages, lower spikes or higher, is like a totally plausible outcome. Great, I mean, it feels like eric did that sort of. Address your concerns. Do you have more questions? The address is my concern. I have one other question. Following the doomsday trend of all engineers, what happens if this is wildly

[30:00] Successful and everybody wants to join Stellar and join the AMM and deposit, pull shares and retrieve pool shares and everything else? Have we thought about that? I mean it works for unison. I mean we've got a lot of room to run here, you know, between us and let's say Ethereum but so, but I think that would just be the outcomes. Please go up right. Yeah, all right. Well, or the ledger limits could go up too. Right, there's still headroom. that validators have to increase the capacity of ledgers too, and we'd all be really happy because this idea would have gained traction and everyone would love it. I mean, if AMMs are super popular, I mean they require way less transactions. I think most of the transactions on the network now are people adjusting their orders on the orderbook, so that kind of all goes away. So we have even more room, if

[31:00] In a m world. So any other questions, thoughts, doomsday scenarios that we want to play out: are we ready for a vote? I feel like we're ready for a vote and I kind of just want to do it now live on this call. But before I do that, I'll just get like real procedural and say: does anyone like object to actually doing a sort of live vote and what time to think about this, in which case we can conduct the vote asynchronously over email. Yeah, cool, okay. So then I think we should have a vote here to move CAP 38 into Final Comment Period pending acceptance. Again, at the end of, there'll be a week for people to sort of raise questions on the Stellar dev mailing list and we'll post this new status change there and at the end of that week- you know well, we'll see what kind of comes in. Depending on what happens at the end of that week, we may move this into accepted,

[32:00] And so you know, based on. Also, if anyone ever wants to check out this whole procedure, you can look in the github CAP repository and it lays out exactly the life cycle of the CAP and you'll see that there are three voters and it requires unanimous consent from all of them to move the CAP into accepted, and so I will. It is Jed, David and nicolas, so let's start with Jed. Jen, what's your vote? Yes to accept, okay. Yeah, David, what's your vote? Yeah, I'd like to accept chapter 38. Great, nikolai, what's your vote? No surprise, you know I'm kind of yes, okay, cool, so we have three yeses and that means that CAP 38 moves into Final Comment Period pending acceptance. I think that's it. Any other final comments, thoughts, questions that anyone has? Well, does the group want to provide some direction on CAP 37?

[33:00] Like, should CAP 37 now be adjusted to be layered on top of CAP 38? Yeah, I think that makes sense. I mean, I think, I'm not saying that we would implement this stuff immediately. I think part of it, is that we want to see what the what, how things play out, like maybe everyone moves to a m and we don't need to interleave these things and we can just skip that complexity. But likely people communities both. So it would be good to have CAP 37 be there in case we want to go down that road, so that would be my take. So technically that means, or procedurally that means, CAP 37 stays in draft mode and may be revisited in order to like sort of graft it on to CAP 38 in the future. Yeah, I think there are some changes to CAP 37 that would be worth making, because not all of the concerns in the CAP, make sense in light of how CAP 38 is

[34:00] Actually implemented. So there's some things that are written up there as well. Right, it would require revision. Ideally, some things get easier because, like the authorization logic or whatever can be, just you know can pick you back on CAP 38 and then some things need to be rethought. There's also feedback. There's a few things like, for example, CAP, I think, to get closer to adoption, CAP 37 should not use floating point, because we like try to avoid floating point because it's like the arithmetic's not associated, which is kind of annoying. Again that easy fix. But just like, basically I would encourage CAP 37, the- you know, revision to continue and to try to have a deployment path or a theoretical one of how this would work now that we're trying to move ahead with CAP 38.

[35:00] Great, sounds like a plan. Anything else okay. Well, thanks everyone for coming, thanks for participating, thanks everyone who's watching. Again, we encourage you to participate as much as you want in any of these discussions about the future of the Stellar protocol. There are links to these particular CAPs in the event description so you can go read them to actually see what it is that we're talking about. And there's also a link to the Stellar depth mailing list, which is where we do things like notify people about the changes of status of CAPs, and it's also where all this discussion before this meeting happens about the CAPs. So again, it's open participation. We'd love to hear your thoughts and we will now move CAP 38 into Final Comment Period pending approval. All right, and that's it. Thanks everybody.

</details>
