---
title: "Open Protocol Discussion"
authors: [justin-rice]
tags: [legacy]
---

import YouTube from "@site/src/components/YouTube";

<YouTube ID="-dedknEnk10" />

- the changes that we're discussing today and what we're focused on now is relate to project jump cannon so it's a future protocol upgrade um these changes would be included in it and project canon uh is aims to bring smart contracts to stellar we've actually modularized a lot of these changes and so there's a whole slew of caps that are related to jump cannon caps 46 through 53.
- since this is a pretty technical discussion if you want to follow along i urge you to take a look at those caps if you're interested in joining the discussion i urge you to join the stellar dev mailing list and if you want to also follow along with jump cannon development more generally you can do so here in the jump cannon channel and also in the jump canon dev channel um and so today again we're focused on on jump cannon related caps there's a pretty uh there's there's a lot on the agenda a lot of small stuff but there may also be some bigger issues that we're talking about um if as you're listening if you have questions the best thing to do is to put them in live chat uh in text i'll do my best to monitor it i mean the goal here is to actually have substantive discussion that moves forward some of these changes and that answers questions and allows continued development so um we may or may not have time to address the the issues in live chat but if we don't do it now during this meeting we'll definitely take a look at that channel afterwards too so feel free to put your questions or thoughts there and that's the end of the intro um everybody here it looks like looks like we got a full house um okay cool so i guess to start off with we we have an agenda that has um like and i guess we can just like sort of start with what's at the top of the agenda i also know that there's some questions about uh interoperability that we may want to address i think maybe we start with 46 removal of box agenda item i i put a bunch of i i put a bunch of agenda items on here you can hear me everyone hear me yeah we can hear you at least i can hear you yes okay um yeah i put a bunch of agenda items on here um but they're all really straightforward so i can just grease them really quickly um boxes in cat46 it's a it's an object that contains a value i think this is actually just an artifact of the notion that we might have had mutable objects because uh i think as far as i can tell it's it's basically indistinguishable as long as we have immutable objects and we haven't ratified pointers there's no way to differentiate an object that contains a value from just the value so lee suggested that we get rid of this and i'm happy to get rid of it until we discover or some reason to bring it back in the future go on once go on twice i guess i have a maybe a question yep so is that does does that mean if if later we decide to have mutable host objects they would just have to be boxed like that that's right that's right that's it we'll just bring back so it's actually completely back i mean forward compatible but yeah we're just bringing we're just bringing the object like back in the future it's just that since we don't have any reason for it right now then we might not delete it yeah makes sense okay so yeah i just as a part of deleting this i want to get rid of the cycle this gets rid of our only cycle click reference in the structure when i get i want to get rid of the option on the box so we definitely can bring this back later on but if we do bring this later on we should put a little bit of effort into making sure that the xdrpp the c plus xdlib can do non-option cycling references which um there is already a plan for but yeah just calling that out yeah it's implemented in c plus plus 20 so either we can move stellar coordinates equals plus 20 or we can back port it to c plus 17.

This session started with a rapid-fire clean-up of the Jump Cannon caps: they agreed to drop the unused `Box` object from CAP-0046, deferred any delegation helpers until the base model ships, and made sure the host/guest boundary is as small as possible. Grady also previewed a CAP-0053 amendment that formalizes a `footprint` type so transactions can declare the ledger keys they plan to read and write.

After the housekeeping the room zeroed in on asset interoperability again. Engineers compared requirements for single versus dual balances, how allowances should be stored, and whether contracts should ever need a trustline. The debate set the stage for the July design summit on asset representation.

Key discussion threads:

- Removing stale concepts (like `Box`) from CAP-0046 and resisting the urge to add delegation features before the base runtime lands.
- Extending CAP-0053 with an explicit `footprint` type for read/write sets so tooling and validators can reason about state access.
- Rearticulating interoperability requirements: reserves, allowances, issuer controls, and how much of that should be enforced via trustlines.
